# MOCAT-ML #

MIT Orbital Capacity Assessment Toolbox - Towards a Machine Learning-Based Approach to Predict Space
Object Density Distributions

With the rapid increase in the number of Anthropogenic Space Objects (ASOs), Low Earth Orbit (LEO) is facing significant congestion, thereby posing challenges to space operators and risking the viability of the 
space environment for varied uses. Current models for examining this evolution, while detailed, are computationally demanding. To address these issues, we propose a novel machine learning-based model, as an 
extension of the MIT Orbital Capacity Tool (MOCAT). This advanced model is designed to accelerate the propagation of ASO density distributions, and it is trained on hundreds of simulations generated by an 
established and accurate model of the space environment evolution. We study how different deep learning-based solutions can potentially be good candidates for ASO propagation and manage the high-dimensionality of
the data. To assess the model's capabilities, we conduct experiments in long term forecasting scenarios (around 100 years), analyze how and why the performance degrades over time, and discuss potential solutions 
to make this solution better.


# Required module #

Python, numpy, fastai, tsai


# Installation #


 - pip install -e


# Related works #

 [MOCAT-MC](https://github.com/ARCLab-MIT/MOCAT-MC?tab=readme-ov-file#charles-rinos-orbit-computation-code) 
 
 [MOCAT-SSEM](https://github.com/ARCLab-MIT/MOCAT-SSEM)


# MIT License #
Copyright (c) 2023 ARCLab

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE 
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


